# Workshops

## Workshop on Tabletop Games

The aim of the 5th workshop on Tabletop Games is to address ways in which
academics can apply their tools to the discussion of analog games; this
includes but is not limited to board games, war games, tabletop role-playing,
collectible card games and other miniature games. The workshop also aims to
highlight the connections between analog and digital games, either approaching
the prototyping and playtesting aspects or exploring the hybrid dimension of
games directly influenced by the analog dimension.

## Workshop on Combating Toxicity, Hate, and Harassment in Online Games

While online multiplayer games are great in many ways (e.g., supporting
social connectedness), they are also platforms on which players can
experience or witness toxicity, hate, and harassment. These behaviours are
potentially harmful for players and ubiquitous in many games, despite
substantial work on combating them. In this workshop, we want to bring
together researchers from different backgrounds to build a community,
identify current challenges, imagine potential solutions, and foster
collaborations aiming to help combat toxicity, hate, and harassment in
online games.

## Workshop on Procedural Content Generation

:fontawesome-solid-link: <https://pcgworkshop.com/>

Procedural Content Generation (PCG) attracts significant interest from both
academia and the games industry where it has been researched and used
extensively. PCG has the potential of substantially reducing the authorial
burden in game creation, improving the theoretical understanding of game
design and realizing its automation, and enabling entirely new forms of
games and playable experiences.

This workshop aims to advance knowledge in PCG by bringing together
researchers and developers, and facilitating discussion on practices,
opportunities, and challenges within the field. Likewise, one of the aims is
to help bridge the gap between academia and industry by giving space to both
to present, discuss, and engage in fruitful dialogue. To support these goals,
this year we provide multiple submission possibilities: full/short length
paper submissions, short position papers, and demonstrations of ongoing
projects. Besides these submissions, this year we also support and encourage
participants to submit early research ideas and work-in-progress in the form
of extended abstracts to be presented and discussed as lightning pitches to
get feedback and foster collaboration.

## Edu-larp @ FDG

:fontawesome-solid-link: <https://sites.google.com/view/edu-larp-fdg/home>

Edu-larp is a structured, live action roleplay (larp) experience that
teaches through social enactment and reflection. We propose to host a
workshop at FDG 2023 which will connect FDG attendees of various disciplines
interested in this topic, with the outcome to understand how edu-larp might
be an effective way of augmenting existing teaching and research within the
games community. During the workshop, attendees will participate in numerous
edu-larp exercises designed to introduce and orient them to the concept, and
facilitate discussion about the different ways edu-larp can be leveraged in
the broad domain of games research. We invite both researchers and scholars
interested in larp to join us for this workshop. Those interested should
submit a proposal (3-pages maximum) outlining their interest in the topic,
and a short author biography (one half page). Please email your proposal
submission to Raquel Robinson, rbrobins@ucsc.edu by February 23, 2023.

## Academic Game Development â€” Professionalizing the creation of video games for research purposes

:fontawesome-solid-link: <https://gameresearch.leiden.edu/events/fdg23-workshop/>

Game design and development for research purposes have been growing in
importance. Such ""academic games"" are applied games that are created in an
academic context. They may involve education, training, support understanding
of human behavior, data gathering, or AI training, to name some examples.

Academic game development involves different constraints and opportunities
compared to commercial game development. However, there is a lack of published
discourse on the idiosyncrasies that accompany academic game development.

The 'AcaDev' workshop provides a venue for sharing experiences and best
practices for academic game development and expanding publications on that
topic. Join us for a day of getting into the weeds of academic game
development and shaping the discourse surrounding it.

